Define session and catalog session properties (#10998)
trinodb/trino: docs/src/main/sphinx/sql/set-session.rst

Set a session property value or a catalog session property.

.. _session-properties-definition:

Session properties
------------------

A session property is a :doc:`configuration property </admin/properties>` that
can be temporarily modified by a user for the duration of the current
connection session to the Trino cluster. Many configuration properties have a
corresponding session property that accepts the same values as the config
property.

There are two types of session properties:

* **System session properties** apply to the whole cluster. Most session
  properties are system session properties unless specified otherwise.
* **Catalog session properties** are connector-defined session properties that
  can be set on a per-catalog basis. These properties can be set separately for
  each catalog by including the catalog name as a prefix, such as
  ``catalogname.property_name``.

Session properties are tied to the current session, so a user can have multiple
connections to a cluster that each have different values for the same session
properties. Once a session ends, either by disconnecting or creating a new

> session, any changes made to session properties during that session are lost.

Reviewer: nit:

```suggestion
session, any changes made to session properties during the previous session are lost.
```

Thanks, this whole paragraph reads much better now and clarifies a lot of detail.

Set a session property value or a catalog session property.

.. _session-properties-definition:

Session properties
------------------

A session property is a :doc:`configuration property </admin/properties>` that
can be temporarily modified by a user for the duration of their current

> connection to the Trino cluster. Many configuration properties have a

Reviewer 2: I *think* I understand "for the duration of their current connection," but do I? Is it until the current client or JDBC connection disconnects? Until the current user logs out but the connection remains open? Is it until the current cluster restarts? We *could* say more here, but I'm honestly not sure it's needed. It will be needed by newbies.

Author: It's important to be clear that it's not just for a given user, but for a given connection by that user. I *think* the current text does enough to clarify this alongside the last sentence of the section that describes disconnection behavior.

Author: Actually, I would like input on that last sentence, because it may be misleading to suggest that the configuration "resets" when you can have two parallel connections with different session configurations.

corresponding session property that accepts the same values as the config
property.

> A catalog session property is a connector-defined session property that is set
> on a per-catalog basis. These properties are set separately for each catalog
> by including the catalog name as a prefix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A catalog session property is a connector-defined session property that can be set
on a per-catalog basis. These properties can be set separately for each catalog
by including the catalog name as a prefix.
```

(might be good to have an example of what the prefixing looks like - note: it isn't catalog-property or catalogproperty but catalog.property)

If the user disconnects or establishes another connection to the Trino cluster,
the values of all session properties and catalog session properties are restored

> to the cluster and its catalog's existing configuration.

Reviewer: Misleading. It's sufficient to mention that "temporarily modified by a user for the duration of their current
connection to the Trino cluster".

Nothing is there to reset or restore.

If the intent is to emphasize that session properties are lost once session ends then it could be worded like:

```
Session property changes are tied to the current session and once the session ends (either via disconnecting or creation a new connection) any changes made are lost.

This also means that you have can have two different connections with both setting the same session property to different values.
```

Examples
--------

> The following example sets a session property to enable optimized hash

Reviewer: revert - IMO `system session prop` and `catalog session prop` are good to differentiate. Otherwise we'll end up using just `session prop` interchangeably for both of them which leads to confusion.

Author: From looking through the connector and /admin/properties docs, right now the standard seems to be that we just use "session property" for system session properties, but we do appropriately say "catalog session property" when talking about those. I could say "system session property" here but then we ought to do a sweep of the docs to update that everywhere else.

Reviewer: I'd prefer that to happen for the clarity it brings - but it should be a follow up IMO.

Reviewer: However I also don't feel very strongly about this as long as people don't get confused.

Author: Reworded and restructured this section a bit to use "Session property" as the overarching term, and be explicit about the difference between system and catalog session properties. If that looks good, then we can follow up by being descriptive about system vs catalog elsewhere, and link back here as needed.

    SET SESSION optimize_hash_generation = true;

The following example sets the ``optimize_locality_enabled`` catalog session

> property for an :doc:`Accumulo catalog </connector/accumulo>` named ``data``::

Reviewer 2: I know this is late to the party, and I know this was inherited, but "data" is a terrible name for a catalog. That name is designed for ambiguity.
Can we make it "accum01" or some such to relate it to accumulo but also show that there can be more than one?

Author: Done
